Project Title: Webflix
What is Webflix? 
It is an online service which allows users to watch movies and tv shows on demand. While movie-access is the main feature of the website it is not he only one. Users can watch trailers for both movies and tv shows. Additionally, users may leave reviews for their favourite movies and see what others have to say them as well.

How does it work?

The base of the website is constructed with html format. This allows for the fundamental structure of the website layout to be constructed. The second layer within the project is the PHP language. With that the layout seems more dynamic and interactive. At the end is the project is the Javascript layer used a few times to enhance the page behaviour and to incorporate attractive third-party libraries. 

Webflix could not exist without a database. For that reason various tables are linked to the website in order to read, write and delete information from it. This is established through usage of various SQL queries to the HNCFOFTA4 server.
While users carry out action such as browse through various categories on the home page a PHP algorithm sends information to the ‘user’ database to chance user status to ‘1’ – active. As a result of pressing the ‘Log out’ button the user is logged out and the status in again updated, this time to ‘0’ – inactive.

The author:

The author: Karol Turetschek a Software Development student in Edinburgh College

What is required to run it?

No installation is required. You can use Webflix from your browser. That is so long you are connected to the Internet.
Why was it made?
Webflix was created for the Edinburgh College as a part of the HND Graded Unit project.

Why can use it? 

Anyone over 16 years old.

What else could it be used for?

It can prove as a useful tool to other students to gain insight on how to create a similar website in future. 




User guide

Visit http://webdev.edinburghcollege.ac.uk/~HNCSOFTSA4/PHP/landingSpare.php to view the landing page. From there you can choose to either Log in or Register.

Registration will require you to make a decision on whether you want to become premium member for a set amount of money or to become a basic user with limited features for free. 

Once an account is created you may log into the service. 
This is a guide to the premium user account and interactions.
The http://webdev.edinburghcollege.ac.uk/~HNCSOFTSA4/PHP/loginMain.php link directs to the login page. 

Pressing on ‘Premium User’ will launch the premium login page. In there after entering correct credentials and upon pressing of ‘Login’ you will be directed to the home page. 

On the top of the screen you may access the navigation bar. From there you may go to:
- Browse: Movies, TV Shows, Movies Reviews, TV Shows Reviews, My Reviews.
- User Account
- About Us
- Coming Soon
- Log out
In the main section of the screen you will be greeted by a extensive range of m ovies ready to view at your leisure. Pressing of the ‘Play’ button within movie card will take you directly to the website which contains the movie – youtube.com. Beside that button you may access further information about the movie. Once you press the ‘I’ button with more movie information you can view movie information such as:
- Movie category
- Year of release
- Language supported 
- Length of the movie
There are three further pages available via the navigation bar on top of the screen:
- User account panel which permits the user to change the password and card details
- About Us page which displays crucial information about the service 
- Coming Soon page which contains the most sought after and upcoming movies
 





Credits
https://www.edinburghcollege.ac.uk/  - The project was based on previous works from the Edinburgh College resources. 
https://www.w3schools.com/  - W3schools provided extensive information on various elements in php as well html building.
https://getbootstrap.com/ - Bootstrap was utilised in various elements such as buttons and card.
